the new anime cell Shader doesn't really
work but I think I fixed it when I made
my first cell shading tutorial my goal
was to give the normal setup the ability
to react to different colored lights in
a scene and where I technically
succeeded the new version of the cell
Shader came with its own set of problems
and broke way too easily but after weeks
of problem solving I finally found the
easiest way to make the ultimate cell
Shader and a few more tips that I'll
tell you about later but first welcome
to the comfy mug Channel my name is
Christian and I spend countless hours
learning how to make anime stuff in
blender so that you don't have to so
make sure to like And subscribe with
notifications enabled so you don't miss
out and if you want to help me keep
making these videos on YouTube I have a
patreon where you can support me and get
some custombuilt anime Assets in return
at the start of each month the first
tier is only $2 a month and I just
released a new set of anime foliage and
trees so check out the link in the
description your support there really
helps me out now with our render
settings optimized and a simple UV
sphere and sunlight added to our scene
with the strength set to three and angle
to 20 we start making this cell Shader
just like any other with a diffused bsdf
Shader to RGB and a color ramp set to
constant and this is normally where you
would be done but this time we'll
duplicate our color ramp and add a mix
color node set to Hue this is where the
magic really happens because if we
change the second color ramps stops to
just black and white and plug in the
nodes as you see on screen we can now
add a point light to our scene and give
it a different color and our cell Shader
will adopt that light's color or more
specifically it's Hue in perfect cell
shading fashion and the colored lights
effective area doesn't have to stop at
one value shift you can adjust the white
stop to let it pass through the next
value by copy pasting the different
color stops positions you may notice a
tiny amount of overlapping on the edges
of the colored lights effective area but
that's easily fixed by adding anywhere
between
0.3 and
0.35 to the original color stops
position and if you want the colored
light to have less of an effect on your
cell Shader you can lower the value of
the white color stop and it'll shift
back to its original color now I would
normally stop the tutorial there but if
you want a bonus tip to make your cell
Shader look even better let's add a
suzan to our scene and give it the same
cell Shader but this time we'll click
this button to make it an independent
copy and we'll also go to our object
properties click the visibility menu and
disable Shadows after that we'll add a
mapping node a mix set to vector and a
texture coordinate node and connect them
as you see on screen making sure to plug
the object output into the vector mix 's
B input and now you'll notice something
interesting going on with our suzan
because it isn't shaded like it normally
would be and that's because when
connected to the normal input of a
diffused bsdf the object output from our
texture coordinate node makes any object
act like it's completely spherical you
can see this more clearly by increasing
the factor of our Vector mix to one this
is just an easy way to soften the
mathematically perfect shading blender
normally does and make make the object
feel a bit softer and you can even add a
soft gradient connected to a mix color
set to Overlay to make the Shader a bit
easier on the eyes and after that feel
free to add more lights of different
colors and have fun with your new anime
cell Shader but if you really want to
make your 3D objects look 2D check out
my tutorial on adding different outlines
to your models remember to subscribe
with notifications enabled and check out
my patreon if you want monthly anime
assets and to have your name up here
with these awesome people my patrons
make these videos on YouTube possible
and I am just so blessed and amazed that
you all contribute to what I do here oh
and in case you guys were wondering I
originally set out to make part two of
the anime grass tutorial this month but
as I was editing the tutorial I began to
notice a few flaws in the Shader and
after my editing software crashed and I
lost a lot of footage I decided I would
post part two after sure I iron out
those flaws I don't ever want to
sacrifice the quality of a Shader or
tutorial just for the sake of getting
another video out so in case you were
wondering about part two it'll come a
little later when I'm confident in its
quality but thank you guys so much for
your understanding and thank you for
watching to the end of the video I hope
you all have a comfy day and I'll see
you here next time at the comfy Market
[Music]